We need a way of finding the *n*th term without generating all previous terms.

The strategy to do this is to generate the *n*th term digit by digit.

All of the numbers beginning with "1" are grouped together, followed by those with "2", and so on. If we could easily count how many start with a particular digit, we could jump over them in one go until we've jumped over *n* terms. 

Let's define the function `how_many(s)` to be the number of arrangements that exist which sum to `s`.

All arrangements must start with a single digit, and so:

```
how_many(s) = (starting with 1) + (starting with 2) + ... (starting with 9)
```

If an arrangement is just a **first digit**, followed by the **rest of the digits**, then we can say:

```
arrangement = (first digit), (rest of digits)
```

If `arrangement` sums to `s`, then `(rest of digits)` must sum to `s - (first digit)`. To work out the number of different possible arrangements of `(rest of digits)`, we can therefore just do `how_many(s - (first digit))`

The number of arrangements which start with a particular `(first digit)` must come from the number of arrangements of `(rest of digits)`, because we have fixed `(first digit)` to a particular value, so it can't change to create a new arrangement.

So instead of writing `(starting with 1)`, we could write `how_many(s - 1)`

```
how_many(s) = how_many(s - 1) + how_many(s - 2) + ... how_many(s - 9)
```

At this point, given that `s` is defined to be no more than 32, we could already write a computer program to go from here. However, we can shorten our definition even further because we can expand out `how_many(s - 1)`:

```
how_many(s) = [how_many(s - 2) + how_many(s - 3) + ... how_many(s - 10)] + how_many(s - 2) + ... how_many(s - 9) 
```

The part in square brackets is incredibly similar to the part outside of them. There's just an extra term, `how_many(s - 10)`, hence

```
how_many(s) = [2 * how_many(s - 1)] - how_many(s - 10)
```

If we wrote this Python code:

```python
def how_many(s):
  return 2 * how_many(s - 1) - how_many(s - 10)
```

Then it would throw an exception, because the code would never stop and would eventually run out of memory. We need to add a recursive base-case.

Let's think about some small numbers.

**0**, there is exactly one arrangement which sums to 0 (the empty set of blocks).
**negatives**, there is no way for the positive digits to sum to a negative number.

```python
def how_many(s):
  if s == 0:
    return 1
  
  if s < 0:
    return 0
  
  return 2 * how_many(s - 1) - how_many(s - 10)
```

Now, just in case, we might want to implement *memoisation*. This is a technique where we store previous invocations of `how_many` so that we don't have to recompute their value. This is important because `how_many(s - 10)`, for instance, will be invoked twice (once as part of `how_many(s - 1)`, and once as part of `how_many(s - 10)`).

We are able to memoise `how_many` because the same inputs will always lead to the same outputs, it is a *pure* function.

```python
past_results_for_how_many = {}

def fast_how_many(s):
  if s in past_results_for_how_many:
    return past_results_for_how_many[s]
  else:
    past_results_for_how_many[s] = how_many(s)
    return past_results_for_how_many[s]
```
