# Introduction
Question 2 requires us to implement two separate things:

- construct the inner decoder ring
- encrypt the given word, using the decoder ring

This walkthrough focuses a lot on programming rather than algorithmic design because Question 2 is an implementation challenge. Code will be asserted early on in this guide which may be replaced further on, simulating the actual process of developing a solution.

- [Construct the inner decoder ring](#construct-the-inner-decoder-ring) \[[**Jump straight to code for this section**](#final-code-for-this-part-of-the-question)\]
- [Encrypt the given word, using the decoder ring](#encrypt-the-given-word-using-the-decoder-ring) \[[**Jump straight to final code**](#final-code)]
# Construct the inner decoder ring
First, let's collect our user input
```python
n, word = input().split()
n = int(n)
```

Although the question requires a circular ring, we can instead use a string or list (which have a beginning and an end), and then we can handle the wrapping-around behaviour ourselves.

To generate the ring, we'll follow the algorithm step-by-step as posed in the problem.

> - **Place the letters A to Z clockwise in order around a circle**

For this, we could type out the entire alphabet, like this

```python
circle = "ABCDEFGHIJKLMNOPQRSTUVWXYZ"
```

or we could use a loop or list comprehension relying on the `chr` and `ord` functions. The best way to do this, however, would probably be using the built-in `string` library:

```python
import string

circle = string.ascii_uppercase
```

If you couldn't remember "ascii_uppercase", remember that you can use your programming language's online help.

> - **Starting with A count clockwise round the circle until n is reached**

To keep track of where we are, let's use a variable, `i`. We need to start at "A", which is the first letter of the alphabet. However, our `circle` is a string, which, in Python, is 0-indexed (it starts counting at 0), so we should initially set `i` to `0`.

```python
i = 0
```

Counting up until *n* is the same as adding *n* in one go. However, the problem intends that we count the *i*th item as well as the subsequent items, but adding *n* would start counting from the *(i + 1)*th item. To fix this, we need to subtract 1. This could have resulted in an off-by-one error.

```python
i += n - 1
```

If *i = 25*, and *n = 3*, then after this we would have *i = 27*. This is no longer inside of `circle`: we need to wrap-around.

In order to wrap-around, we need to find the remainder of *i ÷ 26*. We can do this using Python's `%` (modulo) operator, and we can use some shorthand:

```python
i %= 26
```

> - **Remove the selected letter from the circle — it becomes the first letter on the second dial**

Initially, our inner dial should be empty
```python
inner_dial = ""
```
However, we should now add our selected letter
```python
inner_dial += circle[i]
```
And we should remove the selected letter from the circle. Strings don't support item deletion very well, we would have to mess about with substrings if we wanted to do it. Instead, let's change the way we defined `circle` so that it's a list:
```diff
- circle = string.ascii_uppercase
+ circle = list(string.ascii_uppercase)
```
and then we can just do:
```python
del circle[i]
```
We now need to be careful, because by removing a letter we've changed the way our circle is indexed. Firstly, we should replace our wrap-around code to be able to handle `circle`s of any length
```diff
- i %= 26
+ i %= len(circle)
```
Secondly, we should make sure that `i` is pointing to the correct place -- it's easy for an off-by-one error to sneak in here. In this instance, we're okay, but it's a good idea to work through an example on paper or in your head when you're coding to make sure.

> - Starting from where you left off, count to n again to select the next letter
> - Continue until all the letters have been selected.

In other words, we need to define a loop.

```python
while circle:
  # our code here
```

The output requirement is to only show the first 6 letters of the inner ring. We can use string slicing to achieve this (`inner_dial[:6]`)

## Final code for this part of the question
```python
import string

n, word = input().split()
n = int(n)

circle = list(string.ascii_uppercase)

i = 0
inner_dial = ""
while circle:
  i += n - 1
  i %= len(circle)
  
  inner_dial += circle[i]
  del circle[i]

print(inner_dial[:6])
```
 
# Encrypt the given word, using the decoder ring
Let's store our output in a variable
 
```python
out = ""
```
 
For each letter, we will want to apply the transformation, so this is a good place to use a loop.
 
```python
for letter in word:
  # our code here
```
 
Encrypting a letter can be done by looking up where a letter is on the outer dial (which is simply the alphabet in normal order), and then finding the letter at the corresponding position on the inner dial.
 
```python
outer_dial = string.ascii_uppercase

out += inner_dial[outer_dial.index(letter)]
```

Rotation of the inner dial can be handled in two ways. The first way is to actually change `inner_dial`; and the other way is to change where we *look* on the inner dial.

It does not really matter which approach we chose. Manipulating strings might be slightly more computationally expensive, but we're dealing with words no longer than 8 characters, meaning that we will have no more than 8 rotations in total. The difference is negligable.

To change the value of inner_dial, we would shift all of the characters one to the left. We would then take the first item of inner_dial (which has now been pushed off the end), and move it to the very right side.

We can model this by taking all but the first character of the string, and then concatenate that with the first character of the string.

```python
inner_dial = inner_dial[1:] + inner_dial[0]
```

The alternative is to keep track of some `offset = 0`, which we can then incorporate in our encoding line (taking into account the need for wrapping around using `%` (modulo)):

```diff
- out += inner_dial[outer_dial.index(letter)]
+ out += inner_dial[(outer_dial.index(letter) + offset) % 26]
```

and then we would do `offset += 1` on each loop iteration.

For this walkthrough, we'll use the first choice -- but it might be more impressive to use the second.

# Final code
```python
import string

n, word = input().split()
n = int(n)

circle = list(string.ascii_uppercase)

i = 0
inner_dial = ""
while circle:
  i += n - 1
  i %= len(circle)
  
  inner_dial += circle[i]
  del circle[i]

print(inner_dial[:6])

outer_dial = string.ascii_uppercase
out = ""
for letter in word:
  out += inner_dial[outer_dial.index(letter)]
  inner_dial = inner_dial[1:] + inner_dial[0]

print(out)
```
